The Joe Rogan experience. It's important. You know,
I can't help talking about the death penalty when we talk about shorty Clemente,
because in this country, a lot of people still believe in death penalty.
And I don't. Um,
and what I say to people who believe in the death penalty is I respect your
view,
but what percentage of innocent people are you okay with executing? Right?
Because the system is fundamentally flawed.
And even if the system was reformed in all the ways that we could sit here and
think of, right, and I have some ideas on that,
there's still going to be errors. There's always going to be there,
always gonna be errors made.
And so you have to accept that they're going to be mistakes.
We know that like in Florida where Josh represents James daily, and again,
we did a podcast episode about his case as well. Um,
James is either going to be the hundredth guy executed by the state of Florida
or the 30th guy exonerated from.
Death row. Clemente was the 29th that I'm representing who should be the 30th.
So.
They're not even if all the people they executed were guilty.
And we know they weren't. Right.
We know certain people like Jesse to Pharaoh who was absolutely innocent
executed by the state of Florida and that gruesome execution where the electric
chair quote, unquote malfunction and his head caught on fire.
And they had to electrocute him three times. But even if they got those right,
they aren't even batting 700. Right. And then in, in Louisiana, you know,
to your point before Joe, um,
a guy named John Thompson rest in peace was a good friend of mine.
He came within a month of being executed by the state of Louisiana.
When an attorney, uh,
investigator staring into a microscope and saw the DNA evidence to prove that he
was not guilty of this murder. And he was ultimately exonerated.
And he wrote an opinion piece the New York times where he said,
I don't understand why the prosecutor who prosecuted because he proved that they
knew he was innocent before they prosecuted him. Right. He knew it.
And it was absolutely proven. That was not in question. So he said,
I don't understand why that prosecutor is not being charged with attempted
murder. They tried to kill me and they knew I was innocent.
And I've proven that, but, and what.
Happens to the prosecutor? Nothing, nothing, nothing. This is,
I've been saying this for a long time.
That there's a real problem with human beings when it comes to anything where
there's a game and the problem with policing and prosecuting
people and convicting people.
And it's a game and meaning that there's winners and losers. And when,
when there's winners and losers, people cheat.
There's a lot of people with poor character and they just want to win.
And they get caught up in this game. I mean, you can call it a game.
You can call it a pursuit, whatever you want to call it. There's a,
there's an end that you want to achieve if you're successful. And if you,
if you don't achieve that end, you're unsuccessful.
So when people are trying to achieve this end, they will do all kinds of things.
And it's just inherently a part of human beings that are weak.
People have weak character, people that are morally flawed. They,
things like that. They'll they'll,
they they'll know they're wrong and they do it anyway. They,
they know that someone is innocent and they pursue it anyway,
because they want that. W it's a real problem with people. I've seen it with,
we've all seen him playing games with people, kids do it, you know,
adults do it. Like when you see a grown adult cheating at cards,
or just a game of cards, it's a, it's an embarrassing thing. Like who are you?
You really hit it on the head so much. But listen.
It is so even in the prosecutor and Clemente's case, and,
and this is not, this is not some one-off circumstance, Joe,
you could not have articulated it better. I mean, it is.
You ever been in an argument with someone and it's like,
with my wife, sometimes she'll be like, no, you left the keys here.
And I'll be like, no, I know I gave them back to you.
And then as you're in the argument, you remember, you know what, she's right.
I actually, right. But then you have a, you have a decision to make,
am I going to be the big person and say, I up, or am I going to,
am I going to continue down this course? Right. Unfortunately, you know,
and I think, I think Joe like hit on the fundamental psych psychology.
The psychology is almost like you're right. It's binary.
It's either win or lose. And I was begging, I mean, you know,
I'm an emotional dude. I'm mushy. And I'm,
I had to weep to this prosecutor in Clemente's case,
I had the real murderer on the stand.
And I got my first question to her was how many times have you threatened to
murder someone? Watch how dug in they get? She said, never.
I had a dash cam video of her saying to a cop,
blasting her head against the partition. I'm going to murder you, you.
So I played the video for, and I said, what about that?
She said, oh, I didn't listen. I didn't watch. So that was you.
That was your voice. Right. And you know,
I got her and then she says, well, I black out. I say things and do things.
And I black out them, block them out. I finally got her to admit, I said,
isn't it true that you may have murdered your mother and your grandmother and
blocked it out. She said, yes. And I,
I had to sit in a room with this prosecutor and I don't know if it was just
like, you know, like an angry cry, cause I'm angry that he won't just say,
I up here. We up.
And we got the wrong person and I'm weeping to him saying,
can't you just admit that you made a mistake and, and you're right. It is that,
that I have seen it so many times with prosecutors.
It's all about getting the w and they just want to make that they're wrong.
And I think that there's something deeper about human psychology working there,
where the powers that be won't admit. I mean, I hate to say,
but Kamala Harris was no different here in California. I mean,
she defended, you know, wrongful convictions. Why?
I mean, this isn't like made up,
there's like a huge investigative piece in the New York times about it.
It's not something that's germane to Florida. It's in California,
it's in New York and God forbid you're in the south, you know?
And it's, it's a real problem. And I don't know how.
To say it. Well,
it's not like they're going to completely overhaul the system and stop the
whole, the, the way it's set up now with a judge and prosecutors and attorneys,
and it's there. They're not going to change it. I mean,
if the system is in place, there's too many cases, right?
There's constantly there.
They're constantly hearing new cases to completely overhaul and change this
method of, of, of policing and convicting people.
It would require a massive undertaking and.
That's, well,
we're so appreciative that you give us this forum because there are so many
amazing people that, you know,
are that it really literally takes being in,
in the bowels, if you will,
of the system and getting it beneath your fingernails and standing up and
speaking truth to power.
That'd be terrifying to be there too.
To know that someone is willing to convict someone that they know is innocent
because they want to win. And there's.
More, there's so many factors that go into wrongful convictions, Joe,
we see them again and again, tunnel vision is one, right? They lock in on you.
They decide you're the guy.
And then more new evidence comes in and says he did it right.
They don't want to hear it. Right. They, they, they just,
it's a psychological thing. Um, it's also blind ambition. Um,
and there are so many factors that I think some of them are preventable.
And when, when we set out to do these podcasts,
whether it's the wrongful conviction,
one or junk science that Josh is the host of just came out or even the false
confession series that we did,
our goal is to educate the public because your listeners are
going to you and me, everyone, I'm Jamie over here,
the engineer's going to end up on, uh, on a jury at some point, right?
And I mean, maybe having you maybe holding somebody's life in your hands,
and it's important for you to understand that the people that you hope that are
going to be telling you the truth that you respect because they're authority
figures, right? I grew up respecting uniforms and everything else.
And I still do.
But the fact is they may not be telling the truth.
And the just because somebody says, they're an expert,
that's what Josh talks about on his podcast.
Doesn't mean they're really an expert.
They may be talking about things that are actually junk science.
And furthermore, they're allowed to lie in the interrogation room.
And this is something. If we get nothing else across today,
I always tell people when I go to talks and on my show,
I talk about the fact that if you get picked up and brought in for questioning
and you know, people who are innocent waive their Miranda rights,
85% of people wave their Miranda rights. Anyway,
people who were innocent almost always do,
because they don't think they have anything to hide. They think I'll just go in.
I'll tell them what, you know, like I wasn't there.
I was with my mom or whatever it was and I'd go home.
And they may not say that you're a suspect at all. Let me say,
we just want to ask you a few questions. So the answer is,
if that happens to you,
the only thing you should say is this is my I'm Joe Rogan.
And I want a lawyer or whatever your name is. Whoever's listening.
Those are the only words you should say, because they're not your friends.
And you can get talked in that interrogation room. Crazy happens.
They don't always beat people up. They don't need to, they can use coercive,
psychological tactics that can get people to confess to crimes that they didn't
commit. And once you start talking and you're in that little airless room,
you've seen it on TV, right? And they start the good cop bad cop,
and they intimidate you.
And they threaten you with the death penalty and they're allowed.
To lie. Why are they allowed to lie?
That's a great question, Joel. I mean, other Western countries, they're not,
but here they are. So they can sit there and especially, and you know,
the people that are most likely to falsely confess our people, adolescents,
right? Anyone whose brain is not fully formed.
And we know that your brain is not fully formed two to 25 and military veterans,
interestingly enough.
And they're disproportionately affected by this because they're used to obeying
authority figures, right? And following orders.
And so the Norfolk four classic case of that four,
four guys confessed to a crime. They didn't commit. Um, and none of them did it.
And the.
Central park five is another good example, right? Those.
Were just kids. They were just young teenage kids. And you know, they,
they can sit there and they can threaten you with the death and they can sit
there and go, Joe, listen, we got your buddy in the next room.
He's not even there. And he says, he saw you do it.
We got your fingerprints on the, on the knife. Joe, what are you talking about?
The best thing for you is to cut back. And.
Joe asks, you asked the, the critical question, which is,
why are they allowed to do it? Because there's not a law, no one has the balls.
All these blowhard politicians have the balls to introduce law. Cause you know,
they're afraid to off the police union because they'll lose that vote. Right.
To introduce legislation with the police unions should be the ones who are
clamoring. Right. That introduce legislation now. Right? Introduce legislation,
right? Especially now introduce legislation that makes it a crime, right.
To lie to a suspect. Think about the mind, that's going on here.
And remember the psychology is, we're going to deprive you of sleep.
We're going to deprive you of food. We're going to scare the living out of you.
And we're going to lie to you. We're going to lie to you and make you,
you ever see that Chris rock bit where he's like cop pulled me over and after a
while, I'm like, maybe I did do it. It's like, that is going on.
And it's like, you know, you're like
maybe I did something and didn't remember it.
That's what they start getting you to believe. Because if they're telling me,
they're saying, Joe, listen, we have,
how the do you explain how your DNA is on the
victim? How do you explain that? And you're thinking to yourself,
I can't explain that AI didn't do it, but maybe I don't. I don't know.
Maybe I did something and don't remember it. And then there's, there's this,
which is, you'll hear from a lot of people that are victims of coercive.
Interrogations is, um,
I figured I would just tell them what they wanted to hear,
get out of the room and then sorted out. Right.
Right. And they, and they'll say to you, listen, you're just a kid. No,
one's going to believe that you committed this gruesome murder. Right.
You just got to my partner's crazy. I dunno what he's going to do to you.
But while he's out of the room, let me tell you kid,
the best thing for you to do is just sign the piece of paper. And you know,
we'll sort this out later, you'll be fine.
But now you've just signed your own death warrant because juries can't
understand. When you ask people, would you ever confess to a crime?
You didn't commit the first a hundred people. You see, they all say no, no, no,
no. I'm, I'm smart. I would never do that.
But the thing is they don't realize 25% of the
DNA exonerations, approximately 25%, uh,
involve false confessions. So just process that, right?
That's how many people confess because they're good at it. And some of them are,
some of them are great at it. Some of them may be mentally challenged, right?
The cops, it's also a game. It's a game to get you to gain.
The same kind of game. It's a game to get you to confess. And it.
Goes on. Even after the conviction has been overturned, liken Clemente's case,
like in my own adopted daughter,
Nora Jackson's case where the Tennessee Supreme court unanimously overturned her
conviction for murdering her own mother and in their, in their ruling,
they excoriated the prosecutors for having played so loose with the rules,
right. To say the least. And yet they came back in and said, listen,
we're going to try you again, unless you take,
unless you take a plea and most people say to me, well,
what would the kid try you again for the same thing,
but they can because the higher court, when they overturn your conviction,
the indictments they'll stay as original. And most prosecutors will say, wow,
you know what? It's a long time ago and we've been proven wrong. And you know,
th th we were going to let it go. But if they really are vindictive,
they may say, you know what? I want to protect this, this conviction.
And let's not forget that every time we convict an innocent
person, the real, the real perpetrator remains free.
And that even if you're someone who may be, you know,
pretty hard line hardcore on, on, you know, law and order, whatever, you know,
a lot of your listeners come from different walks of life, different viewpoints,
but everybody can agree that we want the person, especially these vicious,
violent crimes, these brutal crimes, we,
we should all want the real perpetrator off the street and not for the
convenient target to just get, you know, you know, manhandled and,
and, and, and, and brutalized by the system.
And then that other perpetrator oftentimes goes on to commit more terrible
crimes and creates more innocent victims. Okay.